---
source: arca-blog
author: Arca Research Team
date: 2023-02-01
url: https://www.ar.ca/blog/wdtp-feb-1-2023
title: "What's Driving Token Prices? February 1, 2023"
type: article
topher_mentioned: false
---

# What's Driving Token Prices? February 1, 2023

**Arca Research Team** | 2023-02-01

Join Katie Talati, Arca’s Head of Research, weekly on Wednesday at 4PM EST / 1PM PST as she shares notable token activity over the past week and her insights on what market events drove these token price movements. Watch Our Founders Video - FLOW (-5.7%) - Last week, NFT project Doodles announced it would move from Ethereum to gaming-focused Layer 1 blockchain Flow. Flow, backed by Dapper Labs, is best known for its NBA Top Shot NFT project, which gained wild popularity in 2020. The Doodles project is also releasing its newest NFT project, Doodles 2, on Flow. This is the most high-profile project to migrate to Flow’s blockchain and might spell a turnaround for the Layer 1, which has relatively little going on. - SOL (-2.4%) - Last week, Layer 1 protocol Solana announced the release of its dApp store for its new Saga phone, which has slowly started to ship to customers in the past few weeks. The decentralized app store comes pre-downloaded on every phone; however, there are no available apps to download. Despite this, the Saga phone offers a model for how digital assets could become mainstream. - MPL (+2.9%) - Maple, the uncollateralized lend/borrow protocol that suffered several problems last year concerning borrower defaults following Luna’s and FTX’s collapses, plotted a comeback and a pivot last week. The project announced it would move away from uncollateralized lending and instead launch a new liquidity pool that would focus on bringing real-world assets on-chain. This will launch with a new liquidity pool with $100M of trade receivables, essentially allowing firms to borrow cash before receiving their tax rebates. - DYDX (+60%) - In case you missed it, Arca’s CIO released a tweet thread last week challenging the dYdX team’s token and use case. dYdX is a decentralized derivative project that, despite having 70%+ market share, has a token with very little functionality. Following the release of this tweet thread, the dYdX team announced that it would push back the February unlock of investor tokens that was due to inflate the supply by almost 100%.

DISCLAIMER: This commentary is provided as general information only and is in no way intended as investment advice, investment research, legal advice, tax advice, a research report, or a recommendation.
