---
source: arca-blog
author: Arca Research Team
date: 2023-05-03
url: https://www.ar.ca/blog/wdtp-may-03-23
title: "What's Driving Token Prices? May 3, 2023"
type: article
topher_mentioned: false
---

# What's Driving Token Prices? May 3, 2023

**Arca Research Team** | 2023-05-03

Join Katie Talati, Arca’s Head of Research, weekly on Wednesday at 4PM EST / 1PM PST as she shares notable token activity over the past week and her insights on what market events drove these token price movements. Watch Our Founders Video - SUI (-70%) - Sui, the layer-1 blockchain using the MOVE programming language, launched its mainnet today and listed its token SUI on Binance. The launch has been highly anticipated after Mysten Labs, the group behind Sui, raised $300M at a $2B valuation last fall. However, the project disappointed the community by opting to hold a public sale instead of an airdrop. Sui began trading this morning above $1 but has since decreased 37%, settling at $1.35 representing a fully diluted valuation of over $13B. - BLUR (-12%) - NFT marketplace Blur announced on Monday that it was launching Blend, an NFT lending protocol with perpetual collateral. The new product does not use price oracles and has no expirations, which allows positions to stay open indefinitely. The process is facilitated through Blur but is peer-to-peer, with lenders setting the interest rate. Borrowers can repay the loan at any time and lenders can choose to unwind the loan by activating a Dutch auction. Blend has a built-in fee switch which can be turned on after 180 days. The lending protocol is available for certain NFT collections only at this time and has seen $25M in loan volume since launch, while other lending marketplaces have done about $6.8M in aggregate volume during that time. - AXL (+15%) - Crosschain bridging project, Axelar, announced yesterday it would support general message passing between EVM and Cosmos chains, allowing composability between the two. The main projects on Axelar already provide bridging services, but this new release also allows messaging. Cosmos-based projects Osmosis, Neutron, Persistence, Saga, Secret, Squid, Stride, and Umee are all already building in the new feature.

DISCLAIMER: This commentary is provided as general information only and is in no way intended as investment advice, investment research, legal advice, tax advice, a research report, or a recommendation.
