---
source: arca-blog
author: Arca Research Team
date: 2020-02-10
url: https://www.ar.ca/blog/crypto-market-recap-02-10-20
title: ""That’s Our Two Satoshis"  — Is Betting on Trump Gambling or Investing in the Crypto Market?"
type: article
topher_mentioned: false
---

# "That’s Our Two Satoshis"  — Is Betting on Trump Gambling or Investing in the Crypto Market?

**Arca Research Team** | Feb 10, 2020

Will the Government Allow Bitcoin Digital Assets to Succeed? US Marshals are about to auction off almost $40 million of seized Bitcoin digital assets. When was the last time US Marshals auctioned off seized cocaine or other contraband? They don’t, because it is illegal. We often hear from crypto naysayers that “The US Government will never allow Bitcoin to succeed.” We’re quite certain the US Government would not auction off an item that they plan to shut down. We believe that this excuse for not having a digital asset strategy has now become invalidated. There are plenty of reasons to be cautious about a new asset class, but as each fear becomes invalidated, it means there is an increasing number of reasons to educate yourself further. Even the most religious people have acknowledged evolution happened. In this case, the US Treasury has declared that it wants US Dollars. Buyers of the auction clearly prefer owning Bitcoin. It’s a free, healthy, functioning market.

Is Betting on a Political Outcome Investing or Gambling? In 2016, every personal investor and professional portfolio manager had a view on the outcome of the Presidential election. These views, naturally, seeped into their portfolios.

Transparency and the SEC SEC Commissioner Hester Peirce formally proposed a 3-year safe harbor for digital asset projects that are afraid or unwilling to enter U.S. markets due to current securities laws. Read more about Arca's views on the safe harbor framework from Arca Chief Legal Officer and securities lawyer, Phil Liu. From an investing perspective, the irony is that “The mission of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is to protect investors, maintain fair, orderly, and efficient markets, and facilitate capital formation.” But by making it difficult for crypto projects to issue tokens to U.S. investors and forcing those who do to hide in jurisdictional shadows, they are actually hurting more investors than they are helping. Most companies utilizing digital tokens want to be transparent with investors, but they can’t because as soon as they do anything that caters to investors, they know they are violating securities laws. Meanwhile, investors can’t do proper due diligence if the companies / projects they are investing in are not able to disgorge timely and relevant information. If companies choose to follow the law and register through proper channels, not only is the upfront cost enormous, but most crypto exchanges won’t allow these tokens to trade on their platforms since they have been unable to obtain broker-dealer licenses. So the quagmire is as follows: Either issue your token and become a security and then no one can trade it, or you pretend your token is not a security and give out no information. It’s a lose-lose for token issuers and investors. While this is just the first step in what will likely be a lengthy process, it is still a very good sign for the industry. It is time for digital assets to permeate one of the biggest markets in the world without being fearful of the government's intervention. This should breed more development and growth in the market as a whole. Fortunately there are a few people out there like Commissioner Peirce who understand this, and there are companies out there like Messari who have been preaching transparency for years . Arca fully supports this initiative.

And That’s Our Two Satoshis! Thanks for reading everyone! Questions or comments, just let us know.

Statements in this communication may include forward-looking information and/or may be based on various assumptions. The forward-looking statements and other views or opinions expressed are those of the author, and are made as of the date of this publication. Actual future results or occurrences may differ significantly from those anticipated and there is no guarantee that any particular outcome will come to pass. The statements made herein are subject to change at any time. Arca disclaims any obligation to update or revise any statements or views expressed herein. Past performance is not a guarantee of future results and there can be no assurance that any future results will be realized. Some or all of the information provided herein may be or be based on statements of opinion. In addition, certain information provided herein may be based on third-party sources, which is believed to be accurate, but has not been independently verified. Arca and/or certain of its affiliates and/or clients may now, or in the future, hold a financial interest in investments that are the same as or substantially similar to the investments discussed in this commentary. No claims are made as to the profitability of such financial interests, now, in the past or in the future and Arca and/or its clients may sell such financial interests at any time. The information provided herein is not intended to be, nor should it be construed as an offer to sell or a solicitation of any offer to buy any securities, or a solicitation to provide investment advisory services.

Market Recap The List of “Investable” Tokens Is Very Short Apr 6, 2026 | 1 min read Market Recap What Could Go Right? Mar 31, 2026 | 1 min read Market Recap The SEC / CFTC “Frenemy” Relationship Mar 23, 2026 | 1 min read Arca Los Angeles I New York (424) 400-7444 info@ar.ca

Copyright © 2025 Arca Holdings. All Rights Reserved. | Important Disclosures
