---
source: arca-blog
author: Arca Research Team
date: 2018-11-26
url: https://www.ar.ca/blog/thats-our-two-satoshis-11-26-18
title: "“That’s Our Two Satoshis”— Crypto is the Bad House on a Bad Block"
type: article
---

# “That’s Our Two Satoshis”— Crypto is the Bad House on a Bad Block

**Arca Research Team** | Nov 26, 2018

## Subscribe For the Latest Blockchain News & Analysis

## You May Also Like

## The List of “Investable” Tokens Is Very Short

## What Could Go Right?

## The SEC / CFTC “Frenemy” Relationship

## Arca

## Contact Us

Crypto went home for the holidays and may not come back Due to the holiday-shortened week, we had planned to do a lighter Two Satoshis this week. But while you were enjoying your turkey and stuffing, the crypto market revealed itself to be the true turkey, stuffing investors with a string of losses so severe that even oil investors are shaking their heads at the rapid destruction of wealth. It’s no secret that most global markets are reeling right now, with few places to hide. FANG stocks are -25% from the recent highs, oil is -33% in 6 weeks, and even the US High Yield market is beginning to gap wider due to a high percentage of declining Energy bonds and a wall of maturities awaiting in 2019. Respected macro voices are calling for “ risk preservation mode ”, and hedge funds once again failed to actually protect against the downside . And laughably, after 10 straight years of crazy central-bank fueled equity growth at the expense of everything else, a mild 2-month correction has the OECD calling for fiscal stimulus . Despite all of this, the crypto markets not only managed to underperform other asset classes, but also created price swings that few investors will ever be able to stomach. The overall crypto market just witnessed a 40–50% drawdown in only ten trading days, over what is normally a slow holiday-shortened week where you typically don’t need to check the screens every hour. During this stretch, there were five intraday declines of 10% or more out of just ten possible trading days. This was a 2008/2009-like meltdown, that played out in just a week-and-a-half, with little to no relief rallies. For those of you in the crypto ecosystem already (ourselves included), this perhaps isn’t that uncommon. It’s happened before and it may happen again (though the speed of the decline was still jolting). For those of you outside of the crypto ecosystem trying to figure out where crypto fits for you, this is the kind of the move that makes you happy you stayed away, and probably sets you back years before you take the market seriously again. But neither of these attitudes are entirely correct. Both sides can and should be a little more humble, and less definitive. For example:

Viewing utility through price alone misses the fundamental revolution During weeks like this past one, it’s important to remember cryptocurrency and blockchain have uses far beyond price appreciation. So rather than speculate any further on what caused the November plunge, or prognosticate on when the next bull-run will occur, I want to step back and focus on why you’re even reading this in the first place. Some part of you cares about this ecosystem because of its potential, even when that potential is lost in a sea of red numbers. So while the market once again tries to pick itself up from a death blow, take a minute to remind yourself of some of the real-world examples of where this technology is headed. By the time these become mainstream and fully adopted, the volatility will likely have subdued, and this past week will be long forgotten. Real-life use cases

At the end of the day. I can see why most investors are turned off by this volatility. But I can also see why some investors are so turned on. Notable Movers and Shakers During another week of absolute carnage, the markets didn’t discriminate. Most tokens fell 20–50% with just a select few tokens outperforming the broader wreckage:

What We’re Reading this Week ICE Delays Launch Date of Bakkt The much anticipated launch of the Bakkt Bitcoin Daily Futures Contract, which will offer physically backed futures positions, has been delayed until January 24, 2019. Although many hypothesize this is related to the recent market volatility and sell-off, ICE claims this is to ensure there is ample time to allow for customer and clearing onboarding. Crypto Friendly Bank Silvergate Eyes an IPO Silvergate has become notable in the industry for being one of the few banks that will accept customers who operate in the digital asset space. They have over 400 customers, including exchanges like Gemini and Kraken as well institutional investors and startups. This is a net positive for the crypto industry as businesses such as Silvergate provide necessary services for players to operate in the space. Silvergate uniquely offers its customers 24/7 transfers and may offer custody solutions at some point in the future. KPMG Report Says “Cryptoassets are impossible to Ignore” KPMG released a 42 page report covering the institutionalization of cryptoassets and what hurdles the industry needs to overcome first. Notably, they mention ICOs as an important innovation, despite recent regulatory actions: ”ICOs represent an important innovation, providing new pathways and more efficient flows for capital from a significantly wider group of investors.” The report specifically cites compliance, forks, custody, and accounting as obstacles to adoption. Swiss SIX Exchange Launches Crypto Exchange Traded Product (ETP) The ETP, backed by Swiss startup Amun AG, will be listed under the symbol HODL. It will contain five major assets: Bitcoin (BTC), Ripple (XRP), Ethereum (ETH), Bitcoin Cash (BCH), and Litecoin (LTC). The goal of the ETP is to provide investors exposure to the crypto market without having to hold the assets themselves. Hong Kong-Based Exchange OKEx Accused of Settling Futures Contracts Early Early last week, a trader accused HK-based exchange OKEx of tampering with BCH futures contracts and changing their settlement date to occur before the fork, costing investors millions. OKEx responded with a statement that their actions were in line with policy and did not cause such a loss of customer funds. Regardless of what happened, these allegations expose the dangers of an unregulated exchange. Crypto is Capturing Top Talent in Silicon Valley The last twelve months has seen a shift in Silicon Valley as talent from top tech firms have begun to migrate to crypto startups. According to Coindesk, Facebook, Amazon, Apple, Netflix, and Google, have all seen employees leave their “safe” tech jobs in favor of the crypto space. We look forward to this migration as more high quality talent will lead to greater innovation. 1000% ROI Altcoin Today compiled an infographic of the Initial Coin Offerings with the highest returns for 2018. This group of ICOs are all well-known large cap token projects, four of which hail from China (compared to only one from the US), raised in the early part of 2017, a period when crypto was largely unknown but gaining speed. Waste No More — Recycling Bitcoin Mining Byproducts Heatmine, a Canadian mining company, is repurposing the heat created during the Bitcoin mining process as a way to heat buildings. After originally using the heat waste to warm its own buildings, Heatmine realized the excess heat from mining operations could be used to heat homes and businesses. The company has successfully connected mining machines to heating systems during several pilots and now plans to continue distributing these machines in Canada, and will soon expand to the US.

Statements in this communication may include forward-looking information and/or may be based on various assumptions. The forward-looking statements and other views or opinions expressed are those of the author, and are made as of the date of this publication. Actual future results or occurrences may differ significantly from those anticipated and there is no guarantee that any particular outcome will come to pass. The statements made herein are subject to change at any time. Arca disclaims any obligation to update or revise any statements or views expressed herein. Past performance is not a guarantee of future results and there can be no assurance that any future results will be realized. Some or all of the information provided herein may be or be based on statements of opinion. In addition, certain information provided herein may be based on third-party sources, which is believed to be accurate, but has not been independently verified. Arca and/or certain of its affiliates and/or clients may now, or in the future, hold a financial interest in investments that are the same as or substantially similar to the investments discussed in this commentary. No claims are made as to the profitability of such financial interests, now, in the past or in the future and Arca and/or its clients may sell such financial interests at any time. The information provided herein is not intended to be, nor should it be construed as an offer to sell or a solicitation of any offer to buy any securities, or a solicitation to provide investment advisory services.

Market Recap The List of “Investable” Tokens Is Very Short Apr 6, 2026 | 1 min read Market Recap What Could Go Right? Mar 31, 2026 | 1 min read Market Recap The SEC / CFTC “Frenemy” Relationship Mar 23, 2026 | 1 min read Arca Los Angeles I New York (424) 400-7444 info@ar.ca

Copyright © 2025 Arca Holdings. All Rights Reserved. | Important Disclosures
