---
source: arca-blog
author: Arca Research Team
date: 2022-12-19
url: https://www.ar.ca/blog/2022-year-in-review-and-current-market-focus-points
title: "“That’s Our 2 Satoshis” — 2022 Year in Review and Current Market Focus Points"
type: article
topher_mentioned: true
---

# “That’s Our 2 Satoshis” — 2022 Year in Review and Current Market Focus Points

**Arca Research Team** | Dec 19, 2022

3. So what do you do now? Well, if you don’t trust Binance or any service provider in this industry, there isn’t much of a reason to leave your assets anywhere. But it is also possible to believe Binance is a good company with a useful exchange and still trade there, but not feel 100% certainty. A true exchange is a simple business that makes money on the spread/fees from trades and does not need to rehypothecate the assets. But a futures exchange is, by definition, not going to have a perfect asset/liability match due to the inherent nature of how futures and leverage work (which differs from a spot exchange where you can have a 1:1 asset/liability match). So for Binance and other exchanges, the solution for many may be to send assets in, trade, and then send the new assets out. There’s no need to custody assets at an exchange just because you trade there. Per the audit issues above, in the current "guilty ‘til proven innocent" environment, it's virtually impossible for Binance (or any exchange) to actually prove innocence in a timely fashion. No matter what they do, it won't be enough in naysayers' eyes. So be prepared for more volatility and headlines. 4. Inflation No Longer Matters; Growth Does: Markets are reacting much more to PMI, retail sales, jobs, earnings, and other growth indicators than to CPI. Inflation has peaked, the market knows it, and now we've switched into recession/growth fears. That's why Treasuries are moving inversely to stocks for the first time all year. Stocks down (low growth) is good for Treasuries, whereas previously, stocks down (high inflation) was bad for Treasuries. And that’s potentially good news for tokens, as there is a good chance that tokens are largely recession-proof .

5. FTX Does Not Absolve: Many failed digital asset entities (and there have been a lot this year) are now using FTX as a scapegoat, but these lenders and funds were broken business models long before FTX. Redemption arcs based on FTX’s implosion will not make unprofitable/unsustainable business lines come back. Expect low recoveries on those already under court supervision and bankruptcy, while some that have yet to restructure may still be heading in that direction.

6. Perfect Substitutes: For businesses that still work (stablecoins, exchanges, DeFi), all remaining players have perfect substitutes. A failure at one will have little to no long-lasting market impact. With perfect substitutes, customers can seamlessly move elsewhere. So while the witch hunts continue, any future failings will likely have limited market impact other than sentiment and fear.

7. Yield Still Exists: Yield comes from 1) demand for working capital and 2) incentives. Both of these still exist. Funds and market makers still need working capital, and protocols and apps will still incentivize certain behaviors by issuing tokens. While many lenders are dead, longer term, lending is not. That said, with short-term Treasury yields above 4%, HY bonds at 8%, and COIN and GLXY bonds at 15-20%, the bar for yield is significantly higher. Expect 25-100% APRs to be the norm and commensurate with the risk you are taking.

8. Gemini and RIAs - Gemini Earn was an ill-conceived product--a front-end pass-through direct to Genesis with ZERO recourse for Earn customers. And many of these customers were RIAs, as Gemini, Fidelity, and Eagle Brook attracted the most RIAs. It will be a long time before RIAs come back after getting burned here, and it remains to be seen how the inevitable in-court or out-of-court restructuring of Genesis and DCG will impact Gemini customers.

9. DCG/Genesis: When DCG/Genesis ultimately files for bankruptcy or restructures, this will likely be the last dip buying opportunity of the year. While algos will sell on bankruptcy news, the bankruptcy itself would actually tie up assets and could be structurally bullish for markets. We've written a lot recently about how all of this affects GBTC and ETHE, but ultimately, if you're a shareholder of either, bad news will be good news .

10. Shorting the Market Is Hard: If you haven't sold your tokens yet, what could possibly trigger you to sell at this point? It’s hard to believe any worse news could hit than what we’ve seen in the last month. Most selling pressure at this point largely comes from inflation and shorting, but shorting is really, really hard when you don't trust leaving collateral with exchanges or OTC lenders. As such, who is the marginal seller? It's a pretty safe call to say we're at or near the bottom, even if there aren’t clear positive catalysts on the horizon.

Statements in this communication may include forward-looking information and/or may be based on various assumptions. The forward-looking statements and other views or opinions expressed are those of the author, and are made as of the date of this publication. Actual future results or occurrences may differ significantly from those anticipated and there is no guarantee that any particular outcome will come to pass. The statements made herein are subject to change at any time. Arca disclaims any obligation to update or revise any statements or views expressed herein. Past performance is not a guarantee of future results and there can be no assurance that any future results will be realized. Some or all of the information provided herein may be or be based on statements of opinion. In addition, certain information provided herein may be based on third-party sources, which is believed to be accurate, but has not been independently verified. Arca and/or certain of its affiliates and/or clients may now, or in the future, hold a financial interest in investments that are the same as or substantially similar to the investments discussed in this commentary. No claims are made as to the profitability of such financial interests, now, in the past or in the future and Arca and/or its clients may sell such financial interests at any time. The information provided herein is not intended to be, nor should it be construed as an offer to sell or a solicitation of any offer to buy any securities, or a solicitation to provide investment advisory services.

Market Recap The List of “Investable” Tokens Is Very Short Apr 6, 2026 | 1 min read Market Recap What Could Go Right? Mar 31, 2026 | 1 min read Market Recap The SEC / CFTC “Frenemy” Relationship Mar 23, 2026 | 1 min read Arca Los Angeles I New York (424) 400-7444 info@ar.ca

Copyright © 2025 Arca Holdings. All Rights Reserved. | Important Disclosures
