---
source: arca-blog
author: Arca Research Team
date: 2019-01-14
url: https://www.ar.ca/blog/thats-our-two-satoshis-1-4-19
title: "“That’s Our Two Satoshis” —  Is Crypto’s “Bear Stearns” moment upon us?"
type: article
topher_mentioned: false
---

# “That’s Our Two Satoshis” —  Is Crypto’s “Bear Stearns” moment upon us?

**Arca Research Team** | Jan 14, 2019

The January Effect couldn’t hold After a strong start to the year, the crypto market did what the crypto market does — falling almost 20% week-over-week on the heels of three separate sharp declines, beginning in the middle of last week and continuing through the weekend. Prior to the selloff, the market actually seemed fairly orderly. Some tokens were trading up; some were trading down — and those tokens that outperformed or underperformed the market generally had reason for doing so. Even the crypto “sellside”, notorious for adding little to no value beyond just trade execution, came out of the woodwork with some bullish data on their order books . Coupled with a rising global equity backdrop, there seemed to be reason for cautious optimism.

What We’re Reading this Week “Bond King” Gundlach Adds Bitcoin to 2019 Predictions Jeffrey Gundlach of Doubleline Capital predicts that Bitcoin will hit $5,000 or rise 25% in 2019, among other outlooks such as increasing volatility. From Joke Token to Legitimate Use Case: KodakCoin One Year Later KodakCoin may sound like a joke, but KODAKOne raised an ICO in early 2018 with the goal of putting photography rights on the blockchain. Despite many considering the token raise a publicity ploy, KODAKOne’s progress less than one year later is nothing to laugh at. Recently in a beta test of their Post Licensing Portal (PLP) the platform generated more than $1m in licensing claims for photographic rights. As a token that has created a loyalty-reward model, versus the utility token model, KodakCoin may come out on top over the multitude of ICOs that raised at the height of the hype cycle. Spray and Pray In Kraken’s annual Transparency Report, the exchange reported that it saw a 3x increase in inquiries from law enforcement agencies, two thirds of which came from US agencies, although only 20% of its customers are US-based. Kraken hypothesized that “it wouldn’t be surprising to find that the same subpoenas go out to everyone in the hopes that a match will be found.” While the exchange is currently valued at $4b , the resource and monetary costs of responding to subpoenas is still quite high. A Potential Run on French Banks The unrest in France continued this week with protesters now suggesting a run on the banks to destabilize the country and uproot President Macron. The Decentral speculates that with lots of cash floating around, the French may look to put their money into crypto as a censorship resistant asset. Will the Pendulum Swing Back? In this op-ed, Chris Dixon of Andreessen Horowitz explores the various stages of the internet and its development. He discusses how at the dawn of the internet most technology was open source and community controlled. Slowly over time corporations rose in prominence and power and began dictating data usage and access for the public. As such we’re now seeing a return to open source, community-driven projects starting with a move to “cloud-based” systems and blockchain technology. Why Voting Rights Matter for Security Tokens Voting rights will become the next wave of important feature upgrades in the crypto ecosystem as this sector develops. As of right now, voting can be split into two categories: native voting rights (board seats, dividend payments) and crypto voting rights (burning/minting of tokens, exchange listings). Crypto Sees High Usage in Latin America Cryptocurrencies are seeing mass adoption in Latin America as only half the population has access to traditional banking services but almost everyone owns a smartphone. Venezuela and other countries hard hit by inflation have turned to non-government controlled cryptocurrencies as a payment method. Brazil has embraced cryptocurrencies with BTC, BCH and LTC accepted at supermarkets. Maybe a trip down south will show us what a future world of crypto payments looks like. More 2019 Predictions: Predictions for the year ahead abound all our newsfeeds. Carlos Domingo of Securitize and SPiCE VC is calling 2019 the year digital securities become the new ICO . In addition to predictions about the US government and wider global economy, Fred Wilson predicts that large projects in crypto will ship (Filecoin, Algorand), Ethereum will deliver many updates, and sectors such as stablecoins, NFT/gaming, earn/spend opportunities will grow. Arca in the Press & on the Streets

Statements in this communication may include forward-looking information and/or may be based on various assumptions. The forward-looking statements and other views or opinions expressed are those of the author, and are made as of the date of this publication. Actual future results or occurrences may differ significantly from those anticipated and there is no guarantee that any particular outcome will come to pass. The statements made herein are subject to change at any time. Arca disclaims any obligation to update or revise any statements or views expressed herein. Past performance is not a guarantee of future results and there can be no assurance that any future results will be realized. Some or all of the information provided herein may be or be based on statements of opinion. In addition, certain information provided herein may be based on third-party sources, which is believed to be accurate, but has not been independently verified. Arca and/or certain of its affiliates and/or clients may now, or in the future, hold a financial interest in investments that are the same as or substantially similar to the investments discussed in this commentary. No claims are made as to the profitability of such financial interests, now, in the past or in the future and Arca and/or its clients may sell such financial interests at any time. The information provided herein is not intended to be, nor should it be construed as an offer to sell or a solicitation of any offer to buy any securities, or a solicitation to provide investment advisory services.

Market Recap The List of “Investable” Tokens Is Very Short Apr 6, 2026 | 1 min read Market Recap What Could Go Right? Mar 31, 2026 | 1 min read Market Recap The SEC / CFTC “Frenemy” Relationship Mar 23, 2026 | 1 min read Arca Los Angeles I New York (424) 400-7444 info@ar.ca

Copyright © 2025 Arca Holdings. All Rights Reserved. | Important Disclosures
