---
source: arca-blog
author: Arca Research Team
date: 2024-08-28
url: https://www.ar.ca/blog/wdtp-aug-28-2024
title: "What's Driving Token Prices? August 28, 2024"
type: article
topher_mentioned: false
---

# What's Driving Token Prices? August 28, 2024

**Arca Research Team** | 2024-08-28

Join Katie Talati, Arca’s Head of Research, weekly on Wednesday at 4PM EST / 1PM PST as she shares notable token activity over the past week and her insights on what market events drove these token price movements. Watch Our Founders Video - TON (-18%) - Pavel Durov, the CEO and founder of messaging app Telegram, was arrested over the weekend in France. Durov is charged with aiding and abetting criminal activity that occurred through the Telegram app. Although not directly connected, layer-1 protocol The Open Network originally created and spun out of Telegram, and many of its apps are directly integrated into the messaging app. The arrest, therefore, was directly reflected in the price of the TON token, which fell by 17.5% this week. - UNI (-17%) - Last week, crypto firm Prometheum, announced it would support Uniswap (UNI) and Arbitrum (ARB) on its platform, which only lists digital asset securities, effectively declaring that these two assets are securities. Prometheum announced that ARB and UNI can be custodied on its platform alongside Ethereum. Although the ARB price did not react to the announcement, UNI took a nosedive on the announcement and is -23% since the announcement and -17% on the week. - AVAX (+2.2%) - Layer-1 protocol Avalanche saw quite the boost this week after asset manager Grayscale announced the launch of its Avalanche Trust, a private fund for investors to gain exposure to AVAX without holding the underlying asset. The token was on quite the tear until Sunday when news broke that hackers had taken over Avalanche’s community Discord group, which sent the token from $27.09 to $26. - NEAR (+6.6%) —Layer-1 protocol Near launched its Nightshade upgrade last week, pushing the token up 6.6%. The upgrade, the largest since the protocol launched, improves upon the protocol’s scaling solution, sharding. Near’s sharding is combined with stateless validation technology, which it claims will remove the bottleneck many blockchains face. Near currently ranks 27th in TVL with only $287M.

DISCLAIMER: This commentary is provided as general information only and is in no way intended as investment advice, investment research, legal advice, tax advice, a research report, or a recommendation.
