---
source: arca-blog
author: Arca Research Team
date: 2023-05-24
url: https://www.ar.ca/blog/wdtp-may-05-24-23
title: "What's Driving Token Prices? May 24, 2023"
type: article
topher_mentioned: false
---

# What's Driving Token Prices? May 24, 2023

**Arca Research Team** | 2023-05-24

Join Katie Talati, Arca’s Head of Research, weekly on Wednesday at 4PM EST / 1PM PST as she shares notable token activity over the past week and her insights on what market events drove these token price movements. Watch Our Founders Video - EVMOS (-14%) - Evmos, the Cosmos-based chain focused on providing EVM support on Cosmos, faced some turbulence in the last week as the project’s departed co-founder began selling large quantities of his vested tokens on the open market. In a bid for transparency, the Evmos project announced on Twitter that the co-founder, Akkash Khosla, departed the project due to “operational misalignment and disagreements over accountability.” Khosla reportedly is seeking to sell about 500K tokens (about 1.4% of his total allocation or about $70K worth), and his sales accounted for a very small portion of EVMOS sold over the last few weeks. Khosla also responded to Evmos’ public comments that he was “deeply disappointed and outraged at the misleading assertions.” - DASH (-10%) - Dash, a legacy privacy-focused payments blockchain, suffered a network outage earlier this week after undergoing a hard fork. The network was paused and developers have been working on fixing the issue. The network resumed block production yesterday but was paused for over 48 hours. - FIL (-3.7%) - Last week, the SEC announced that the decentralized storage blockchain Filecoin met the definition of a security. The SEC also used FIL’s newly appointed token status to request Grayscale withdraw its registration statement for the Filecoin Trust. The announcement has many scratching their heads as Filecoin is a proof-of-work (PoW) network (in the past, PoW networks have been considered utility tokens), and it conducted a very compliant private fundraising offering years ago. - XRP (+0.7%) - Last week, payments project Ripple acquired Metaco—a Swiss firm providing digital asset custody for financial institutions. The move comes as an increasing wave of regulation has hit the U.S., forcing digital asset projects to look at other areas of the world for business. Ripple reportedly paid $250M for the firm. Ripple is also in a battle with the SEC over whether its token XRP is a security. Many believe a verdict should conclude soon.

DISCLAIMER: This commentary is provided as general information only and is in no way intended as investment advice, investment research, legal advice, tax advice, a research report, or a recommendation.
