---
source: arca-blog
author: Arca Research Team
date: 2024-09-18
url: https://www.ar.ca/blog/wdtp-sep-18-2024
title: "What's Driving Token Prices? September 18, 2024"
type: article
topher_mentioned: false
---

# What's Driving Token Prices? September 18, 2024

**Arca Research Team** | 2024-09-18

Join Katie Talati, Arca’s Head of Research, weekly on Wednesday at 4PM EST / 1PM PST as she shares notable token activity over the past week and her insights on what market events drove these token price movements. Watch Our Founders Video - VEGA (-30%) - Vega Protocol, a Layer-1 protocol built to support derivatives trading, passed a governance vote last week to wind down its chain and native VEGA token. The protocol, which launched in 2023, raised $51M, including a seed round led by Pantera Capital and a $43M crowdsale on Coinlist in 2021. The team proposed using its remaining funds to fund the development of the open-source Vega software, which will support the launch of a new project, Nebula. Luckily, VEGA holders can swap their VEGA tokens to the new project’s NEB tokens. - HNT (-16%) - Last week, DePIN project Helium released a v3 proposal outlining three main objectives as a path forward for the project. The first objective proposes creating a “Helium Extension Network” essentially making it easy for anyone to onboard their DePin project to Solana (which Helium is built upon). This would ultimately make Helium the go-to plug-and-play hub for DePin projects. The two other objectives focus on reworking the tokenomics of the HNT token and some of its subdao tokens (IOT and MOBILE). While the changes are just in the proposal stage and still up for community discussion, some feel that the tokenomic changes may be too complicated and that the Helium Extension Network may be an ambitious project, given the data processing needs. - TON/CRV (+6.25%/-4.6%) - Layer-1 protocol The Open Network announced this week it would collaborate with Curve Finance to incubate a stable swap DEX for the TON blockchain. The move might seem a bit odd as Curve has deployed a version of its own stableswap on other L1 and L2 chains; however, as TON is not an EVM-compatible chain, Curve cannot simply deploy its contracts to their chain. Launching a stableswap product should help invigorate TON’s DeFi ecosystem, which has been slower to grow (with about ~$400M in TVL) than other Layer-1 ecosystems.

DISCLAIMER: This commentary is provided as general information only and is in no way intended as investment advice, investment research, legal advice, tax advice, a research report, or a recommendation.
