---
source: x-tweet
date: 2023-04-26
url: https://x.com/CryptoHayes/status/1651206276859465730
title: "1/x The @firstrepublic saga
$FRC indicating down 15% at the open ...
If they m"
type: thread
---

1/x The @firstrepublic saga

$FRC indicating down 15% at the open ...

If they make it to the weekend without being taken over by the FDIC colour me surprised. https://t.co/Vh15MjmTnC

2/
If FDIC takes over, the next question is whether deposits over $250k will be made whole. This is a decision of US Treasury Secretary Yellen. She told the market she has the authority to deem a banking institution systemic and then gtee all deposits.

4/
But if $FRC fails, and depositors take an L. Then every other bank with the same issues, will go under shortly thereafter. The entire US banking system suffers from the same issues. Read Kaiseki to understand why in more detail.

https://t.co/HgV35v1JyD

3/
Yellen knows backstopping all banking deposits increases moral hazard and cements the view that the USG stands behind the entire US banking deposit base. Inflationary BIGLY!

6/
So anyone who can will not want to fuck around and find out. More deposits go to the 8 TBTF banks. More deposits go to MMF which give money to the Fed to earn RRP rates well above paltry deposit rates.

5/
While everyone expects Yellen to bail out every bank that fails, it is not a certainty. This is a political decision, and maybe a certain bank isn't held in high regard by the politicians and is allowed to fail.

8/
This uncertainty is what is driving outside money like Gold and $BTC higher. More to come in my next essay called "The Denominator".

7/
The US banking crisis is not over. Until the Fed cuts short term rates below, I believe, 2% and steepens the yield curve, we will see bank after bank bite the dust and depositors will play deposit roulette on whether or not Yellen bails them out.