---
source: x-tweet
date: 2023-05-01
url: https://x.com/CryptoHayes/status/1653175133442576384
title: "2/ The 8 TBTF banks are effectively nationalised bc they have a govt gtee on the"
type: thread
---

2/
The 8 TBTF banks are effectively nationalised bc they have a govt gtee on their entire deposit base. They will not be allowed to fail regardless of decisions they make. Socialised losses, privatised gains, it's a great deal but...

1/
A longer essay coming soon on my take. This $JPM / $FRC deal means the US regulators decided to nationalise the banking system. https://t.co/BNfzSweoQS

4/
The govt will provide rule exemptions and mate's rates on loans like how the OCC waived deposit concentration limits, and FDIC loaned $50bn to $JPM to get them to do the deal. But a deal will go done.

3/
When called upon the 8 TBTF banks must absorb their shitty cousins who couldn't handle the rough and tumble free market. The prodigal childrens' equity holders will get a 0 first, but the depositors will find a new home in a safe TBTF bank.

6/
As long as inflation remains high, and the politics surrounding banking, credit, and debt are toxic, there will be more contorted solutions to try to confuse you as to who bears the loss.

5/
The whole point is for the federal govt to claim it isn't bailing out a failed bank but a private company is. It's a bit of left hand, right hand, but those are the politics of the day. Just look at how China allocates losses as a blueprint for the US.

8/
Due to the US debt ceiling debacle, no banks can get "bailed out" by the govt. This is the perfect point of political paralysis to capitalise on another probably several non-TBTF banks getting deaded by the FDIC.

7/
If you aren't one of the 8 TBTF banks you are fucked as long as inflation is sticky at these high levels and possibly rising. Today I will choose a bank with large CRE exposure and 50% to 75% OTM puts that expire before June 1.