---
source: x-tweet
date: 2022-11-09
url: https://x.com/CryptoHayes/status/1590457116107583488
title: "1/ What happens now that Baron CZ passed on FTX bailout and SBF is bankrupt. The"
type: thread
---

1/
What happens now that Baron CZ passed on FTX bailout and SBF is bankrupt. The next question is who could save FTX?

3/
FTX customer deposits will only see recovery in a bankruptcy court, and that will take many years to sort out. Mt Gox creditors still haven't received funds and it's been almost a decade.

2/ 
If CZ, the richest person in #crypto, can't do the deal. No one can do the deal.

5/
Money managers that lost funds on FTX will retreat from trading initially and reduce the number of trading venues on which they operate. Orderbook liquidity will fall.

4/
Not your keys, not your coins. Expect all exchanges to guard their clients capital closely. No more taking credit from so called #crypto prime brokers. No more polite phone calls to large traders to request a margin top up. No mercy liquidation.

6/
It won't take much to push the market to much lower levels and force other over-leveraged players into distress. Remember a lot of liquidity providers will sit on the sidelines licking their wounds for a bit.

7/
If US CPI comes in "hot", 7% or 8%, expect TradFi markets to puke into the weekend. #Crypto will take another stab lower, and it is possible for a capitulation candle over the weekend when fiat rails are closed.

9/
Assume that until proven otherwise all counterparties have or had exposure to one of SBF's enterprises. That means if you don't believe they are being honest about their losses due to word salad statements that don't actually say much. GTFO!

8/
#Crypto OG diamond hands are waiting for lower levels and will step in to further increase their stacks. 
$BTC = $10k - $15k
$ETH = $750 - $1k
$SOL = $3

11/
The faster we take our losses, the faster we bottom and set ourselves up for the Fed pivot which will happen sometime in 2023. The worst would be for zombies to still be amongst us when YCC begins in earnest.

10/
I have been trading #crypto for longer than I have been trading TradFi, and I am still speechless about what is going down.

12/
SFYL but chin up, the band is still playing, and there is money to be made in both directions.